---
title: "31 Things I've Learned In 25 Years of Living"
date: 2025-07-02
draft: false
---

1\. Ask for what you want in an assertive manner, just make sure you
have the runs on the board. Know your worth. 

2\. Be unreasonably interested in other people when you are meeting and
getting to know them. Ask questions, be attentive and engaged. Just make
sure it doesn’t become an interrogation. 

3\. Don’t take things personally, unless of course someone has
deliberately set out to get you. There are a myriad of reasons why
people can act in a way that negatively affects you. It’s not always a
personal attack. In most cases, what’s happening in someone else’s life
is far more important to them and will determine their actions

4\. Being in the same environment for too long leads to staleness and
doesn’t allow you to form new ideas and insights. Break away, move
house, meet new people, do different activities. 

5\. No matter what you try or say, sometimes people will not see the
world the same way you do, or think the same way as you do. In these
situations, its best to realise this quickly and work towards a solution
through another means. 

6\. Relationships shouldn’t be transactional. If you decide to do
something for others, don’t expect anything in return. 

7\. High applied intelligence: energy, focus, will power and emotional
control allow us to be the captain of our lives and are the foundation
upon which other forms of intelligence; classical (logic, creativity,
problem solving, strategy), social (persuasiveness, empathy, social
skills) and dynamic (knowledge, ability to learn and memory) thrive. 

8\. Don’t overestimate the world and underestimate yourself. You are
better than you think. Most “superheroes” or “super successful” are just
like you and nothing of the sort. They’re weird, neurotic creatures who
do big things despite lots of self-defeating habits and self-talk. The
difference is that they have coping mechanisms to put this aside and get
on with it. 

10\. Learn to be comfortable with your bad qualities. You are constantly
evolving into the person you wish to become. You can’t have everyone’s
good qualities but can constantly aim to improve. 

11\. Let the honeymoon period of relationships settle before making
internal or external commitments to that person. It’s very easy to be
swept off your feet by the idea of someone before really getting to know
them. Take your time to get to know someone. 

12\. When there is a small subset of people doing something that seems
irregular or out of the ordinary, take the time to investigate why it is
they’re doing that before labelling or judging them.

13\. Do all that's humanly possible before you end a relationship, that
means trying to make it work. At the time it can be very hard to discern
whether you've fallen out of love or you simply need a break. You may
never get the chance again. Do it.

14\. Deal with problems as they arise. That way you can be at peace with
them. If you leave them, they will continue to drain mental energy and
can only get worse. 

15\. Move past low self-confidence in trying new things for it is
precisely that which will prevent you from ever doing it and the fruit
which may follow.  You learn by doing. Don’t be afraid to screw up. You
are that much further by simply asking for what it is that you want.
Good things come to those that take action.

16\. It's not enough to simply take in information when you're
attempting to learn. You must think deeply about the content i.e. How
can I apply this to my own life at this very moment? What is a plan I
can put into place to apply this new knowledge? Doing so will not only
help you retain knowledge, but also improve your life beyond
comprehension.

17\. Perfectionism is linked to fear of failure is linked to not taking
action. Give up your perfectionism and you will start taking action.

18\. Guard your time like your life depends on it. Don't be scared to
say no but learn how to say it politely.

19\. If you ever feel like you're losing touch or that you're stuck in a
rut, stop what you're doing and get away from where you are currently. A
new environment can provide the exact stimulus you need to re-strategise
and re-invigorate yourself. Go to your favourite holiday spot. Allow
yourself to be completely alone with your thoughts and think about
things deeply. 

20\. The ability to make a person feel that, when you're with that
person, he or she is the most important (and the only) person in the
room is the skill that separates the great from the near-great. If you
know something positive about someone else, let them know that you know
it. Brag to them about them. How do we do this?

- Listen
- Don't interrupt
- don't finish the other person's sentences
- Don't say "I knew that"
- Don't even agree with the other person (even if he praises you, just
  say, "Thank you"). 
- Don't use the words "no", "but", and "however"
- Don't be distracted. Don't let your eyes or attention wander elsewhere
  while the other person is talking 
- Maintain your end of the dialogue by asking intelligent questions
  that a) show you're paying attention, b) move the conversation
  forward, and c) require the other person to talk (while you listen). 
- Eliminate any striving to impress the other person with how smart or
  funny you are. Your only aim is to let the other person feel that he
  or she is accomplishing that. 

If you can do all this, you'll uncover a glaring paradox: The more you
subsume your desire to shine, the more you will shine in the other
person's eyes. 

21\. For the super-successful among us, there's no on and off switch for
caring and empathy and showing respect. It's always on. They don't rank
personal encounters as A, B, or C in importance. They treat everyone
equally, and everyone eventually notices.

22\. Decisions don't always need to be completely binary or final. Give
yourself room to change your mind frequently.

22\. Learn to put up with aspects of people or things that you don't
like for the benefits that they bring (should they outweigh the
negatives).

23\. It's never too late to go back on a bad decision, always be
prepared to do so with the addition of new information.

24\. *"It is impossible to live without failing at something, unless you
live so cautiously that you might as well not have lived at all in which
case you fail by default"* — J.K. Rowling. Try things without fear of
failure for the potential upside far outweighs the consequences of
failing. Succeed or learn (not succeed or fail).

25\. No one owes you anything. The only person you can really depend on
in life is you. If you want something, you work for it. You don’t expect
it to be given. Be self-sufficient entirely. 

26\. The size of our universe shrinks considerably when we place
ourselves at the center. And the people who are most focused on
themselves are the least satisfied in life. On the other hand, those who
see their life as an opportunity to bring joy to others quickly find it
themselves.

27\. Relationships with others are good, but constant streams of
distraction are bad. Learn when to power off the blackberry, log off
Facebook, or not read a text. Focus on the important, not the urgent. A
steady flow of distractions from other people may make us feel
important, needed, or wanted, but feeling important and accomplishing
importance are completely different things

28\. Success is maintained by mastering the delicate mix of doing the
right things for you as an individual on a daily basis. The fastest way
to jeopardize this is by disregarding your own steps and caring too much
about the actions of the rest

29\. Increase your surface area of hits. Take more opportunities. Put
more things out into the world and you're bound to hit a home run
eventually.

30\. The effort it takes to react to something wrong can drain you and
at the same time prevent you from seeing the good things that happen in
life. By not reacting you are the bigger person, you are choosing your
peace of mind over saying something and being right. You know that you
don't need people who make you feel worthless and you don't need drama.
Over time you well learn that no matter how hard you try you won't be
everyone's cup of tea and that's okay.

31\. Wisdom is understanding the long-term consequences of your actions.
