---
title: "A Simple Framework To 10x Your Network"
date: 2025-07-02
draft: false
---

# A simple framework to 10x your network

## Help This Person

Every time you encounter another person, think: **"How can I help this
person?"**

It's not altruistic.

Nothing else can so quickly accelerate your career and improve your
quality of life.

Being helpful is the best form of "self-promotion" there is.

When you see someone you'd rather not spend time talking to, think "help
this person."

Instead of giving short answers and trying to end the conversation
abruptly, genuinely ask how they are and what they're working on.

See if there's something obvious you can help with.

When you see someone you haven't seen in a while, do the same.

When you walk into your local cafe, think "help this person" about the
server.

Instead of standing there with negative body language because your order
isn't coming fast enough, see if you can make them smile.

When your colleague produces a subpar piece of work, think "help this
person."

Instead of criticizing them, dig below the surface to understand why it
happened.

Help them improve their skills or find a role better suited where they
can succeed.

Don't ignore it, really help.

When you interview someone and realise halfway through that you're not
going to hire them, tell them.

Use the rest of the interview to problem solve and help them find a role
or company that's better suited.

You'll be their most memorable rejection ever.

h/t <a
href="https://flight.beehiiv.net/v2/clicks/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3R3aXR0ZXIuY29tL3ZraG9zbGEiLCJwb3N0X2lkIjoiZmMyOTRiMjQtZWYzZi00YTQ1LWIyOTgtZWQxNDUzN2ZlNjQ0IiwicHVibGljYXRpb25faWQiOiIxMzdkNWU4My05NTAzLTRkYjctYThjNC1mMzQxNWMyMDU1YWUiLCJ2aXNpdF90b2tlbiI6IjdjYjdiN2U1LTkxMjUtNDQyZi1iOGI4LTI3Y2RjMTUyYWRiYiIsImlhdCI6MTY3ODcwNTYzMy44NDEsImlzcyI6Im9yY2hpZCJ9.nigdzKu1nLmObaV6ilGX63oXGPHOM-yCNjcEATGJnn8"
target="_blank">@vkhosla</a>

Approaching any situation with the mindset of, "How can I help this
person?" will dramatically change your attitude.

It will change your thought process from one of scarcity to one of
abundance.

It will change the interaction from negative to overwhelmingly positive.

But, wait a minute, don't some bad people win?

Yes, they do. But, this is the exception. Not the rule.

It takes extraordinary intellect or skill to succeed while being a bad
person.

For those of us with a heart, the only choice is to succeed by helping
others.

There is no faster or more effective way to change your interactions and
build relationships.

You'll be viewed as a helpful, constructive, positive, and dependable
person.

People will think you are more thoughtful, attentive, and understanding.

People will think of you for job opportunities.

People will think of you for investment opportunities.

People will think of you when they need someone they can trust.

People will tell other people all of these things which enhances your
reputation even further.

That's why thinking "help this person" is not altruistic; it's selfish.

Selfish in the best sense of the word.

The single best way to help yourself is to always be looking for ways to
help other people.

It just so happens that this also makes the world a better place.

What makes this framework difficult:

It doesn't always have an immediate payoff.

You could spend months with this approach and not receive any benefit.

And so it is with all great habits, their gratification is delayed.

The key is trusting the principle of reciprocity.

The 'Times' change. Technology changes. Markets change.

But, human behaviour doesn't change.

We're hard wired to respond well to those that treat us well and help
us.

You can trust that over a long enough time period, your efforts to help
others will pay you back 10x.

h/t to <a
href="https://flight.beehiiv.net/v2/clicks/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3R3aXR0ZXIuY29tL0JydWNlS2FzYW5vZmYiLCJwb3N0X2lkIjoiZmMyOTRiMjQtZWYzZi00YTQ1LWIyOTgtZWQxNDUzN2ZlNjQ0IiwicHVibGljYXRpb25faWQiOiIxMzdkNWU4My05NTAzLTRkYjctYThjNC1mMzQxNWMyMDU1YWUiLCJ2aXNpdF90b2tlbiI6IjdjYjdiN2U1LTkxMjUtNDQyZi1iOGI4LTI3Y2RjMTUyYWRiYiIsImlhdCI6MTY3ODcwNTYzMy44NDIsImlzcyI6Im9yY2hpZCJ9.kwu3PHyaalMYA0LgfQ54MpfReSa0QJV2ZhVwuRojtio"
target="_blank">@BruceKasanoff</a> for this brilliant framework.
