---
title: "A Few Of My Favourite Parables"
date: 2025-07-02
draft: false
---

## To Change The World

When I was a young man, I wanted to change the world.

I found it was difficult to change the world, so I tried to change my
nation.

When I found I couldn’t change the nation, I began to focus on my town.
I couldn’t change the town and as an older man, I tried to change my
family.

Now, as an old man, I realize the only thing I can change is myself, and
suddenly I realize that if long ago I had changed myself, I could have
made an impact on my family. My family and I could have made an impact
on our town. Their impact could have changed the nation and I could
indeed have changed the world.

Meaning: This is an incredibly important story about what can be
controlled and changed in the world around you. It’s easy to get lost in
trying to change those around you, the situation or circumstances you
find yourself in. However, when you get right down to it, the only thing
you have the power to change and control is yourself, your actions, and
the response you make to the world around you. This is a powerful thing
to understand.

*Source: unknown monk around 1100 AD*

## The Businessman and The Greek Fisherman

A businessman took a short vacation to a small Greek coastal village.
Unable to sleep he walked the pier. A small boat with just one fisherman
had docked and inside the boat were several large tuna.

“How long did it take you to catch them?” he asked.

“Only a little while” the Greek fisherman replied.

“Why don’t you stay out longer and catch more fish?” he asked.

“I have enough to support my family and give a few to friends,” the
Greek fisherman said as he unloaded them into a basket.

“But …. What do you do with the rest of your time?”

The fisherman looked up and smiled” I sleep late, fish a little, play
with my children, take a nap with my wife and stroll into the village,
where I sip wine and play guitar with my friends”.

The businessman laughed “Sir I am an MBA and can help you. You should
fish more, and with the proceeds buy a bigger boat. In no time you could
have several boats with the increase haul. Eventually you would have a
fleet of fishing boats. Then instead of selling your catch to the
middleman, you could sell directly to the consumers. You could control
the product, processing, and distribution. You would need to leave this
small coastal village and move to the city to run your expanding
empire.”

The fisherman asked “But, sir, how long will all this take?”

“15-20 years, 25 tops” said the businessman.

“But what then?” asked the fisherman.

The businessman laughed and said “That’s the best part, when the time is
right, you would announce an IPO and sell your company stock to the
public and become very rich. You would make millions”.

“Millions? Then what?” asked the fisherman.

The businessman replied, “Then you could retire and move to a small
coastal fishing village, where you could sleep late, fish a little, play
with your kids, take a nap with your wife, and stroll to the village in
the evenings where you could sip wine and play guitar with your
friends.”

*Source: Unknown*

## The Two Wolves

An old Cherokee chief was teaching his grandson about life...

"A fight is going on inside me," he said to the boy. "It is a terrible
fight and it is between two wolves. One is evil. He is anger, envy,
sorrow, regret, greed, arrogance, self-pity, guilt, resentment,
inferiority, lies, false pride, superiority, self-doubt, and ego. The
other is good he is joy, peace, love, hope, serenity, humility,
kindness, benevolence, empathy, generosity, truth, compassion, and
faith. This same fight is going on inside you and inside every other
person, too."

The grandson thought about it for a minute and then asked his
grandfather,

"Which wolf will win?"

The old chief simply replied,

"The one you feed.”

Meaning: It’s no surprise that expressing gratitude increases positive
experiences. Focusing on something causes your brain’s reticular
activating system (RAS) to red-flag all things related. If your default
is toward negativity, you’ll always see the glass half empty. Start
feeding the good wolf to not only see, but live the silver lining.

*Source: Unknown*

## We are never alone

A boy is about to begin the youth’s rite of passage.

His father takes him into the forest, blindfolded, and leaves him alone.
He is required to sit on a stump for the entire night and not take off
the blindfold until the ray of sun shines through it. He is all by
himself. He cannot cry out for help to anyone. Once he survives the
night he then becomes a man.

He cannot tell the other boys of this experience. Each boy must come
into his own manhood.

The boy was terrified and could hear all kinds of noise. It seemed like
beasts were all around him. Maybe even some human would hurt him. The
wind blew the grass and earth and it shook his stump. But he sat
stoically, never removing the blindfold. It would be the only way he
could become a man.

Finally, after a horrific night the sun appeared and he removed his
blindfold. It was then that he saw his father sitting on the stump next
to him, keeping watch for the entire night.

We are never truly alone. Even when we do not know it, our family and
friends are watching out for us, sitting on a stump beside us.

Meaning: In our darkest moments, it’s common to feel like we’re
incredibly alone. Fighting battles on all sides and stumbling towards a
direction we hope will get us out of it. But it’s important to remember,
we’re not alone, whether we see it or not, there is help available.

*Source: Unknown*

## The Farmer’s Fortune

Once upon the time there was an old farmer who had worked his crops for
many years. One day his horse ran away. Upon hearing the news, his
neighbors came to visit. "Such bad luck," they said sympathetically.

"Perhaps," the farmer replied.

The next morning the horse returned, bringing with it three other wild
horses. "What great luck!" the neighbors exclaimed.

"Perhaps," replied the old man.

The following day, his son tried to ride one of the untamed horses, was
thrown, and broke his leg. The neighbors again came to offer their
sympathy on his misfortune.

"Perhaps," answered the farmer.

The day after, military officials came to the village to draft young men
into the army. Seeing that the son’s leg was broken, they passed him by.
The neighbors congratulated the farmer on how well things had turned
out.

"Perhaps," said the farmer...

Meaning: We’ve all had experiences where the curse turns into a
blessing; rejection turns into redirection, and the unanswered prayer is
the best thing that could’ve happened to you. Life is indeed a box of
chocolates, you never know what you’re gonna get. Yet the father isn’t
delusional or apathetic, but equanimous through life’s ups and downs.
And there’s a subtle expectation that fortune will follow his
misfortune. It’s important to have foundational beliefs that keep you
composed, to appreciate and celebrate the good, and to process trials
knowing they soon shall pass.

*Source: Taoism*

‍
