---
title: "A Simple Framework To 10x Your Network"
date: 2025-07-02
draft: false
---

<h1 id="">A simple framework to 10x your network</h1><h2 id="">Help This Person</h2><p id="">Every time you encounter another person, think: <strong id="">"How can I help this person?"</strong></p><p id="">It's not altruistic.</p><p id="">Nothing else can so quickly accelerate your career and improve your quality of life.</p><p id="">Being helpful is the best form of "self-promotion" there is.</p><p id="">When you see someone you'd rather not spend time talking to, think "help this person."</p><p id="">Instead of giving short answers and trying to end the conversation abruptly, genuinely ask how they are and what they're working on.</p><p id="">See if there's something obvious you can help with.</p><p id="">When you see someone you haven't seen in a while, do the same.</p><p id="">When you walk into your local cafe, think "help this person" about the server.</p><p id="">Instead of standing there with negative body language because your order isn't coming fast enough, see if you can make them smile.</p><p id="">When your colleague produces a subpar piece of work, think "help this person."</p><p id="">Instead of criticizing them, dig below the surface to understand why it happened.</p><p id="">Help them improve their skills or find a role better suited where they can succeed.</p><p id="">Don't ignore it, really help.</p><p id="">When you interview someone and realise halfway through that you're not going to hire them, tell them.</p><p id="">Use the rest of the interview to problem solve and help them find a role or company that's better suited.</p><p id="">You'll be their most memorable rejection ever.</p><p id="">h/t <a href="https://flight.beehiiv.net/v2/clicks/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3R3aXR0ZXIuY29tL3ZraG9zbGEiLCJwb3N0X2lkIjoiZmMyOTRiMjQtZWYzZi00YTQ1LWIyOTgtZWQxNDUzN2ZlNjQ0IiwicHVibGljYXRpb25faWQiOiIxMzdkNWU4My05NTAzLTRkYjctYThjNC1mMzQxNWMyMDU1YWUiLCJ2aXNpdF90b2tlbiI6IjdjYjdiN2U1LTkxMjUtNDQyZi1iOGI4LTI3Y2RjMTUyYWRiYiIsImlhdCI6MTY3ODcwNTYzMy44NDEsImlzcyI6Im9yY2hpZCJ9.nigdzKu1nLmObaV6ilGX63oXGPHOM-yCNjcEATGJnn8" target="_blank" id="">@vkhosla</a></p><p id="">Approaching any situation with the mindset of, "How can I help this person?" will dramatically change your attitude.</p><p id="">It will change your thought process from one of scarcity to one of abundance.</p><p id="">It will change the interaction from negative to overwhelmingly positive.</p><p id="">But, wait a minute, don't some bad people win?</p><p id="">Yes, they do. But, this is the exception. Not the rule.</p><p id="">It takes extraordinary intellect or skill to succeed while being a bad person.</p><p id="">For those of us with a heart, the only choice is to succeed by helping others.</p><p id="">There is no faster or more effective way to change your interactions and build relationships.</p><p id="">You'll be viewed as a helpful, constructive, positive, and dependable person.</p><p id="">People will think you are more thoughtful, attentive, and understanding.</p><p id="">People will think of you for job opportunities.</p><p id="">People will think of you for investment opportunities.</p><p id="">People will think of you when they need someone they can trust.</p><p id="">People will tell other people all of these things which enhances your reputation even further.</p><p id="">That's why thinking "help this person" is not altruistic; it's selfish.</p><p id="">Selfish in the best sense of the word.</p><p id="">The single best way to help yourself is to always be looking for ways to help other people.</p><p id="">It just so happens that this also makes the world a better place.</p><p id="">What makes this framework difficult:</p><p id="">It doesn't always have an immediate payoff.</p><p id="">You could spend months with this approach and not receive any benefit.</p><p id="">And so it is with all great habits, their gratification is delayed.</p><p id="">The key is trusting the principle of reciprocity.</p><p id="">The 'Times' change. Technology changes. Markets change.</p><p id="">But, human behaviour doesn't change.</p><p id="">We're hard wired to respond well to those that treat us well and help us.</p><p id="">You can trust that over a long enough time period, your efforts to help others will pay you back 10x.</p><p id="">h/t to <a href="https://flight.beehiiv.net/v2/clicks/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3R3aXR0ZXIuY29tL0JydWNlS2FzYW5vZmYiLCJwb3N0X2lkIjoiZmMyOTRiMjQtZWYzZi00YTQ1LWIyOTgtZWQxNDUzN2ZlNjQ0IiwicHVibGljYXRpb25faWQiOiIxMzdkNWU4My05NTAzLTRkYjctYThjNC1mMzQxNWMyMDU1YWUiLCJ2aXNpdF90b2tlbiI6IjdjYjdiN2U1LTkxMjUtNDQyZi1iOGI4LTI3Y2RjMTUyYWRiYiIsImlhdCI6MTY3ODcwNTYzMy44NDIsImlzcyI6Im9yY2hpZCJ9.kwu3PHyaalMYA0LgfQ54MpfReSa0QJV2ZhVwuRojtio" target="_blank" id="">@BruceKasanoff</a> for this brilliant framework.</p>