---
title: "Pro/Con Lists - A Framework for Effective Decision Making"
date: 2025-07-02
draft: false
---

<p id="">For many people, Pro/Con lists are the go-to decision-making tool for most decisions:</p><ul id=""><li id="">Where to live?</li><li id="">Where to work?</li><li id="">Where to study?</li></ul><p id="">They involve listing all the positive things about a certain decision (the pros) and comparing them against the negative things (the cons).</p><p id="">While useful in extremely simple cases, Pro/Con lists have big shortcomings:</p><p id="">1/ They cause you to overlook the cons</p><p id="">2/ They don't assign weights to the items</p><p id="">3/ They assume there are only two options</p><p id="">4/ They lead to too many items which clouds decisions</p><p id="">Let me explain.</p><h2 id=""><strong id="">1/ They cause you to overlook the cons</strong></h2><p id="">Ever heard of the grass-is-greener mentality?</p><p id="">It's when you mentally exaggerate the potential positives of something—a job or location—and downplay the negatives.</p><p id="">This is a natural tendency that's very hard to avoid: like it or not.</p><h2 id=""><strong id="">2/ They don't assign weights to the items</strong></h2><p id="">In reality, each pro/con has a different 'impact' to you and should be treated as such.</p><p id="">For example, you have preferences which cause some factors to be more important than others.</p><p id="">These should be highlighted or given greater weight.</p><h2 id=""><strong id="">3/ They assume there are only two options</strong></h2><p id="">AKA 'The Framing Effect.'</p><p id="">Only evaluating two alternatives leads to Narrow Framing: A bias created by constraining the set of possible outcomes.</p><p id="">In decision making, it's important to consider variations of options, not just two.</p><h2 id=""><strong id="">4/ They lead to too many items which clouds decisions</strong></h2><p id="">With a Pro-Con list, it's tempting to spend hours listing out all the possible factors to include.</p><p id="">This can lead to an overwhelming list that's hard to make sense of.</p><p id="">Instead, we should focus on the few that count.</p><h2 id=""><strong id="">So, what to use instead of a Pro-Con list?</strong></h2><p id="">The simplest way to improve a Pro-Con list is by adding weights to it.</p><p id="">Go through each item and assign a score of -5 (for negatives) to +5 (for positives) according to how important that item is relative to others.</p><p id="">For example, you're considering a new career.</p><p id="">Autonomy is more important to you than location. So, give autonomy a higher score than location.</p><p id="">For each option (or the new compared to status quo), you then have a more objective picture of their relative strength (numerically).</p><p id="">This methodology is a simple example of a cost-benefit analysis.</p><h2 id=""><strong id="">It solves most of the issues of pro-con lists by:</strong></h2><ol id=""><li id="">Assigning weights</li><li id="">Helping you think seriously about the cons</li><li id="">Allowing an easier (mathematical) comparison between the two options</li></ol><h2 id=""><strong id="">That's it, I hope you enjoyed reading!</strong></h2><p id="">‍</p>