---
title: "10 of the Best Frameworks and Mental Models to Foster High-Performance"
date: 2025-07-02
draft: false
---

<p id="">Welcome to the new friends of the A Players newsletter who have joined us since last week!</p><p id=""><strong id="">A big thank you to our sponsors who keep this newsletter free for our community:</strong></p><p id="">Today's issue is sponsored by <a href="https://click.postapex.com/9PY1CZUMn-WnCjCUfIURZ4FyTXg" target="_blank" id="">Morning Brew</a>. A succinct daily email on the hottest topics in business, tech, and finance. It's one of my favourite curation newsletters and can be read in 5 minutes. Join over 4 million people by reading Morning Brew. <a href="https://click.postapex.com/9PY1CZUMn-WnCjCUfIURZ4FyTXg" target="_blank" id="">Join Free</a>!</p><h1 id="">This Week: 10 of the best frameworks and mental models to foster high-performance </h1><h2 id="">Introversion vs Extraversion</h2><p id="">A mental model that can be extrapolated to mean: </p><p id="">“People are not interchangeable.” </p><p id="">To maximise the success of any venture, put people in positions that maximise their strengths and minimise their weaknesses. </p><p id="">Don’t fight nature, embrace it.</p><h2 id="">Pygmalion Effect</h2><p id="">Higher expectations lead to improved performance.</p><p id="">The highest performing companies—and people—are typically those with the highest internal expectations. </p><p id="">Want to achieve more? </p><p id="">Start with your expectations.</p><h2 id="">Directly Responsible Individual</h2><p id="">A DRI is someone made explicitly responsible for completing a task or project. </p><p id="">It prevents situations where work isn’t completed and it’s unclear who was responsible for making sure it happened. </p><p id="">A DRI provides clarity and no room for excuses.</p><h2 id="">Law of Triviality</h2><p id="">People spend a high % of their time on minor issues.</p><p id="">Why? </p><p id="">Trivial issues are easier to understand and form opinions about—they don’t require serious thinking. </p><p id="">High-performance companies don’t waste time or money on issues that don’t move the needle.</p><h2 id="">Crew Resource Management (CRM)</h2><p id="">An idea from the airline industry involving promoting the voices of all crew members.</p><p id="">It dissuades hierarchical decision making by encouraging Crew members to raise issues freely. </p><p id="">The voice of all matters more than the voice of one.</p><h2 id="">Seek Disconfirming Evidence</h2><p id="">Disconfirming evidence is ignoring information that contradicts existing beliefs. </p><p id="">It’s comfortable to ignore what makes you feel uncomfortable. </p><p id="">But the smartest companies embrace disconfirming evidence to prevent long-term failure.</p><h2 id="">Forcing Function</h2><p id="">Forcing functions are anything that “forces” a desired action to be completed. </p><p id="">For example, sharing a product launch date with customers is a forcing function to build the product on time. </p><p id="">Why are they useful? </p><p id="">They prevent excuses for not meeting goals.</p><h2 id="">Extreme Ownership</h2><p id="">“Extreme Ownership. Leaders must own everything in their world. There is no one else to blame.”</p><p id="">—Jocko Willink </p><p id="">Set clear expectations around what it means to take responsibility. </p><p id="">Elite companies don't finger point or play blame games—they own outcomes.</p><h2 id="">Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit&nbsp;</h2><p id="">Don’t shy away from sharing your point of view or disagreeing.</p><p id="">But, when a decision is made, let go of your ego and commit to the decision. </p><p id="">Popularised by Amazon, this model prevents Groupthink and fosters forward progress.</p><h2 id="">Weekly 1-1's</h2><p id="">1-1’s are a compulsory weekly meeting between employee and manager. </p><p id="">They can be used for feedback, career development, or to share issues. </p><p id="">Whilst a simple exercise, 1-1’s are a vital forcing function for continual improvement and monitoring sentiment.</p><p id="">There you have it, 10 of the best frameworks and mental models to foster high-performance.</p><p id="">I hope you found these as helpful as I have.</p><p id="">Stay curious, </p><p id="">Alex</p><p id="">P.S. Whenever you're ready, there are 3 ways I can help you:</p><ol type="decimal" id=""><li id="">Interested in becoming a multidisciplinary thinker? <a href="https://ltcwrk.com/alex-brogan-ltcwrk/" target="_blank" id="">The Latticework</a>&nbsp;is an application only, all-in community providing the most thoughtful approach I’ve seen to learning the big ideas from the big disciplines. I’ve been a member for 1 year and am now proud to offer my community priority access to join as well as a sneak preview of some of the key content. Head over using&nbsp;<a href="https://ltcwrk.com/alex-brogan-ltcwrk/" target="_blank" id="">this link</a>&nbsp;to check it out.</li><li id="">Are you a software developer? Join my application only community with top companies recruiting for developer roles. It's free and you can stay completely anonymous.&nbsp;<a href="https://www.alexbrogan.com/global-developers-collective" target="_blank" id="">Find a Job</a></li><li id="">Looking to grow or get more exposure on your brand? Showcase your business to 15k people inside&nbsp;<a href="https://www.alexbrogan.com/partnership" target="_blank" id="">this newsletter</a>.</li></ol><h2 id="">🔗 Favourite links of the week 🔗</h2><ol type="decimal" id=""><li id=""><a href="https://twitter.com/SachinRamje/status/1501992813848047616" target="_blank" id="">6 questions that will make you more likeable</a></li><li id=""><a href="https://hbr.org/2018/05/the-surprising-power-of-questions" target="_blank" id="">The Surprising Power of Questions</a></li><li id=""><a href="https://letter.substack.com/p/the-best-of-david-perell-big-ideas" target="_blank" id="">Justin Mikolay's summarization of David Perell</a></li></ol><p id="">See you again next week!</p><p id=""><br><a target="_blank" href="https://www.beehiiv.com/?utm_campaign=0cf2a0a7-ab3c-4251-b193-eade105e7513&utm_medium=post_rss&utm_source=a_players" id="">Powered by beehiiv</a></p>