---
title: "If you’re not curious, you’ll never be great"
date: 2025-07-02
---

<p id="">The elevator doors slide shut, sealing me in with my dreams and doubts. It's 2019, and I'm ascending to the 30th floor of Goldman Sachs, my heart racing faster than the lift itself. At 21, with the dust of European cobblestones and South American trails still clinging to my shoes following a gap year, I've landed what many consider the holy grail of finance jobs.</p><p>‍</p><p id="">Despite my excitement, I'm acutely aware of how little I know. I create an extensive list of resources to learn: financial modelling, valuation techniques, industry primers – you name it. Over the next few months, I immerse myself in the material alongside my full-time job. I'm learning rapidly, and although it's not always visible, I'm improving quickly.</p><p>‍</p><p id="">But after several months, something changes. No matter what I try, I just can’t get myself to consume the content. It won’t stick. I feel bored. I reason that it’s because I’ve got so much else on my plate, and I’m too tired for extra learning.</p><p>‍</p><p id="">I didn’t realise it at the time, but this was the first clue I would never stay at Goldman. As time passes, my disillusionment grows. I'm grappling with a perplexing question: Why am I not thrilled to be here after working so hard to secure this coveted position? What's wrong with me?</p><p>‍</p><p id="">After months of pondering whether to stay or leave, the insight hits me: I’m not curious to learn Investment Banking, so I’ll never be great. If I know I’ll never be great, why should I spend another day here.</p><p>‍</p><p id=""><strong>Takeaway 1: If you’re not curious, you’ll never be great.</strong></p><p id="">When discipline is required to learn something, it’s a sign your authentic self doesn’t want to learn that thing. Over time, you’ll be more successful doing something you want to improve at—something that doesn’t feel like a chore. What others do effortlessly is often because they enjoy it. You can’t compete with someone doing something they’re genuinely excited by. The goal is to find what that thing is for you. Anything less sets you up to underachieve your potential.</p><p>‍</p><p id=""><strong>Takeaway 2: What’s best for you is best for the world.</strong></p><p id="">Abraham Maslow said that a key to self-actualisation is finding something to apply yourself to make the most of your abilities. Mark Twain said, “The two most important days in your life are the day you are born and the day you find out why.” The greatest shame is that most humans never find out why they are born. </p><p id="">But the world benefits when they do. The world benefits when each individual is put to their highest and best use. This is egotistical utilitarianism. The idea that what’s best for you is best for the world. Don’t do the world a disservice. Step back and ask what excites you and do that. The whole world benefits when you maximise your potential.</p><p>‍</p><p id="">In a world where you can create huge businesses in any niche, you’re capping your potential and future success by not doing what you enjoy most.</p><p>‍</p><p><em>"The two most important days in your life are the day you are born and the day you find out why." </em></p><p><strong><em>— Mark Twain</em></strong></p>