---
title: "9 Things You Can Do Today That Will Extend Your Lifespan"
date: 2025-07-02
draft: false
---

<p id="">Welcome to the <strong id="">1,374(!)</strong> new friends of the Mental Models, Concepts, and Frameworks newsletter who have joined us since last week!</p><h1 id="">This Week: 9 things you can do today that will extend your lifespan</h1><h2 id="">Take Sleep Seriously</h2><p id="">Human beings are the only species that deliberately deprive themselves of sleep.</p><p id="">But emerging from research in the last 10 years is an unmistakable message:</p><p id="">Sleep is the single most effective thing we can do to reset our brain and body health each day.</p><h2 id="">Eat Plant-Based Foods</h2><p id="">Eat Plant-Based Foods</p><p id="">In the 5 regions of the world (Blue Zones) where people live the longest, plant-based foods make up ~95% of the diet.</p><p id="">”Meat is like radiation: We don’t know the safe level.”</p><p id="">—Walter Willett, Harvard School of Public Health</p><p id="">See Blue Zones by Dan Buettner.</p><h2 id="">Lift Heavy Weights</h2><p id="">Heavy lifting strengthens your bone density, which reduces the risk of breaks and fractures as you age.</p><p id="">Greater muscle mass elevates your metabolism which helps burn calories keeping you lean.</p><p id="">Finally, your coordination improves after lifting heavy weights.</p><h2 id="">Intermittent Fast</h2><p id="">During fasting, our bodies undergo important changes including increased antioxidant production, DNA repair, and the removal of damaged or dead cells (which can cause cancer).</p><p id="">We weren’t designed to snack all day.</p><p id="">See Lifespan by <a href="https://flight.beehiiv.net/v2/clicks/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3R3aXR0ZXIuY29tL2RhdmlkYXNpbmNsYWlyIiwicG9zdF9pZCI6IjRlZmE0MzZmLTAzYWYtNGMyZS05MzAzLTRhYzBlMjE0NmJlNyIsInB1YmxpY2F0aW9uX2lkIjoiMTM3ZDVlODMtOTUwMy00ZGI3LWE4YzQtZjM0MTVjMjA1NWFlIiwidmlzaXRfdG9rZW4iOiI3Y2I3YjdlNS05MTI1LTQ0MmYtYjhiOC0yN2NkYzE1MmFkYmIiLCJpYXQiOjE2Nzg3MDU1OTUuNDY3LCJpc3MiOiJvcmNoaWQifQ.2-U2_dThSU0oGgO6B43JaZR4E6RPG6Xo7P1E3v1VvX8" target="_blank" id="">@davidasinclair</a> for more</p><h2 id="">Engage In Regular Mobility (Yoga/Stretching)</h2><p id="">Sitting all day in the office is a recipe for disaster—our bodies were designed to move regularly.</p><p id="">By staying mobile, you’ll fend off the inevitable injuries that come with old age more easily.</p><p id="">You’ll also feel more energetic.</p><h2 id="">Limit Alcohol</h2><p id="">While a small amount of alcohol consumption is okay for maintaining social connections, overconsumption has dire effects.</p><p id="">It ruins your motivation and will leave you underachieving your potential.</p><p id="">Not to mention the negative effects on the heart and body.</p><h2 id="">Minimize Sustained Stress</h2><p id="">Sustained stress has been shown to increase the biological signs of aging within the body.</p><p id="">The more you stress, the more likely you are to suffer negative effects such as memory loss as you age.</p><p id="">Fighting stress is worth the effort.</p><h2 id="">Maintain Close Social Connections</h2><p id="">People who have close social ties have been shown to be happier, have fewer health problems, and live longer.</p><p id="">Conversely, those with weak social ties tend to have increased later-life cognitive declines and rates of mortality.</p><h2 id="">Exercise</h2><p id="">You’ve heard this one million times by now.</p><p id="">But, it’s for good reason.</p><p id="">Physical activity is a stressor that activates longevity genes within the body.</p><p id="">The people who live the longest consistently maintain a regular level of daily exercise.</p><h2 id="">That's it, I hope you enjoyed reading!</h2><h3 id="">How are you finding these newsletters?</h3><ul id=""><li id=""><a href="https://alexbrogan.beehiiv.com/login" target="_blank" id="">Awesome, keep em' coming!</a></li><li id=""><a href="https://alexbrogan.beehiiv.com/login" target="_blank" id="">They're okay</a></li><li id=""><a href="https://alexbrogan.beehiiv.com/login" target="_blank" id="">Make them better!</a></li></ul><p id=""><a href="https://alexbrogan.beehiiv.com/login" id="">Login</a> or <a href="https://alexbrogan.beehiiv.com/subscribe" id="">Subscribe</a> to participate in polls.</p><h2 id="">Finally, A Newsletter I enjoy</h2><ul id=""><li id="">The <a href="https://flight.beehiiv.net/v2/clicks/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2J1c2luZXNzYnJhaW5zdG9ybXMuY29tIiwicG9zdF9pZCI6IjRlZmE0MzZmLTAzYWYtNGMyZS05MzAzLTRhYzBlMjE0NmJlNyIsInB1YmxpY2F0aW9uX2lkIjoiMTM3ZDVlODMtOTUwMy00ZGI3LWE4YzQtZjM0MTVjMjA1NWFlIiwidmlzaXRfdG9rZW4iOiI3Y2I3YjdlNS05MTI1LTQ0MmYtYjhiOC0yN2NkYzE1MmFkYmIiLCJpYXQiOjE2Nzg3MDU1OTUuNDY3LCJpc3MiOiJvcmNoaWQifQ.uYBgpRY3PtZhXzCj6EYoFZ6RvaGr8LExsoAzY_hpWIo" target="_blank" id="">Business Brainstorms newsletter</a> helps fellow entrepreneurs level up their entrepreneurial game. Each email includes paint points, trends, and frameworks specifically for founders looking for better business ideas.</li></ul><p>‍</p>