---
title: "9 Of The Best Decision-Making Resources On The Internet"
date: 2025-07-02
draft: false
---

<p id="">Welcome to the <strong id="">400(!)</strong> new friends of the Mental Models, Concepts, and Frameworks newsletter who have joined us since last week!</p><h1 id="">This Week: 9 of the best decision-making resources on the internet</h1><h2 id="">(1) Decision Making: A Framework That Works by Junto Investments</h2><p id="">”In the same way compounding interest increases wealth, good decisions produce exponentially better results the more of them we make. So learning to make them well is a very healthy investment.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">Decision Making Archives</strong></p><p id="">junto.investments</p><h2 id="">(2) Making Good Decisions as a Product Manager by @brandonchu</h2><p id="">”Deciding how important a decision is, is the most important decision you can make. For people that make decisions for a living, understanding when one is really important vs. not-that-important is the most critical skill.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">Making Good Decisions as a Product Manager</strong></p><p id="">While product managers may not build the actual product, they do produce something very tangible for a team: decisions.</p><p id="">blackboxofpm.com</p><h2 id="">(3) 3 Heuristics for Decision Making  by @naval</h2><p id=""><strong id="">3 Heuristics for Decision Making — Naval Ravikant | HackerNoon</strong></p><p id="">There are infinite choices that we’re making all day long and trying to apply some rule to all these choices is difficult. These rules don’t apply to everything. Be intelligent ...</p><p id="">hackernoon.com</p><h2 id="">(4) Methods to Improve Decisions by Michael Mauboussin</h2><p id="">“You gain more by not being stupid than you do by being smart. Smart gets neutralized by other smart people. Stupid does not.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">Methods to improve decisions (Five common mistakes and How to address them) by Michael J. Maubous...</strong></p><p id="">Read background of Michael J. Mauboussin here Please find our summary of his paper below: (Emphasis ours) You gain more by not being stupid than you do by being smart. Smart ge...</p><p id="">www.finnacleshahclasses.com</p><h2 id="">(5) Checklists: Getting Important Decisions Right by Junto Investments</h2><p id="">”Under conditions of complexity, not only are checklists a help, they are required for success.”</p><p id="">—Atul Gawande</p><p id=""><strong id="">Checklists: Getting Important Decisions Right</strong></p><p id="">How to use the timeless tool of a checklist to reduce the rate of error in important decisions.</p><p id="">junto.investments</p><h2 id="">(6) Decision Making - Reflections &amp; Frameworks by @gregdocter</h2><p id="">Link to thread: <a href="https://flight.beehiiv.net/v2/clicks/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3R3aXR0ZXIuY29tL2dyZWdkb2N0ZXIvc3RhdHVzLzEyNjI4MzQxNjQ4MTE4NzAyMDg_cz0yMCZ0PVBvTEZ1SFZTQzFxWFNiaFc1aWhNbmciLCJwb3N0X2lkIjoiY2Q1ZWU0MzQtZGFhYy00MTkwLThlNzQtZmU4YjM3NDZlMmU5IiwicHVibGljYXRpb25faWQiOiIxMzdkNWU4My05NTAzLTRkYjctYThjNC1mMzQxNWMyMDU1YWUiLCJ2aXNpdF90b2tlbiI6IjdjYjdiN2U1LTkxMjUtNDQyZi1iOGI4LTI3Y2RjMTUyYWRiYiIsImlhdCI6MTY3ODcwNTYwMC42MjMsImlzcyI6Im9yY2hpZCJ9.z5qXxqFmce503JR8Dd5N85Z8dd3zEW0JyjRmwNgMBwM" target="_blank" id="">Decision Making - Reflections &amp; Frameworks</a></p><h2 id="">(7) Creating a Decision Journal by @farnamstreet</h2><p id="">”A decision journal helps you learn from past decisions, think through current decisions, and avoid problems before they happen.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">How a Decision Journal Changed the Way I make Decisions (Template Included)</strong></p><p id="">A decision journal helps you learn from your past decisions, think through current decisions, and avoid problems before they happen. </p><p id="">fs.blog</p><h2 id="">(8) A thread on how great decision-making organizations think about decisions by @BenJohnstonSF</h2><p id="">”Why good decision processes are so impactful, how to make better, faster decisions, and frameworks &amp; tools”</p><p id="">Link to thread: <a href="https://flight.beehiiv.net/v2/clicks/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3R3aXR0ZXIuY29tL0JlbkpvaG5zdG9uU0Yvc3RhdHVzLzEyNjgyOTg2NDM1NDAzMzY2NDA_cz0yMCZ0PXRoT2VIU2FLVWZEQ29RenUzSWEyX0EiLCJwb3N0X2lkIjoiY2Q1ZWU0MzQtZGFhYy00MTkwLThlNzQtZmU4YjM3NDZlMmU5IiwicHVibGljYXRpb25faWQiOiIxMzdkNWU4My05NTAzLTRkYjctYThjNC1mMzQxNWMyMDU1YWUiLCJ2aXNpdF90b2tlbiI6IjdjYjdiN2U1LTkxMjUtNDQyZi1iOGI4LTI3Y2RjMTUyYWRiYiIsImlhdCI6MTY3ODcwNTYwMC42MjMsImlzcyI6Im9yY2hpZCJ9.dczkMIhuvclQTQn6ShPgz4RK4-bgzra7J55eVEwTrFk" target="_blank" id="">A thread on how great decision making orgs think about decisions.</a></p><h2 id="">(9) How to make smart decisions by Lifelessons</h2><p id="">”Ultimately I think it’s not about whether or not you’ve made the right decision, it’s about how you live with that decision. I think that’s the most important part in decision making.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">How to make smart decisions</strong></p><p id="">In this article I interview Roman Tschäppeler the co-author of The Decision Book about how to make smart decisions! In this article: The too much information paradox B...</p><p id="">lifelessons.co</p><h2 id="">(10) How to make Difficult Decisions by Lifelessons</h2><p id="">”If something is important to you, especially if it has long-term consequences – don’t rush into it. Take your time, do your homework, and get educated.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">How to make Difficult Decisions</strong></p><p id="">It’s not chance, fate, luck or anything else that determines your destiny. It’s your decisions. Your decisions determine everything about your life: What you do Where you live W...</p><p id="">lifelessons.co</p><h1 id="">That's it, I hope you enjoyed reading :)</h1><h3 id="">How are you finding these newsletters?</h3><ul id=""><li id=""><a href="https://alexbrogan.beehiiv.com/login" target="_blank" id="">Awesome, keep em' coming!</a></li><li id=""><a href="https://alexbrogan.beehiiv.com/login" target="_blank" id="">They're okay</a></li><li id=""><a href="https://alexbrogan.beehiiv.com/login" target="_blank" id="">Make them better!</a></li></ul><p>‍</p>