---
title: "Happy, Smart, and Useful, 10 Scientific Steps To A Fulfilling Career, & More"
date: 2025-07-02
draft: false
---

<p id="">Welcome to the <strong id="">200(!)</strong> new friends of the Mental Models, Concepts, and Frameworks newsletter who have joined us since last week!</p><h1 id="">This Week: 16 of the smartest things that have ever been said on figuring out what to do with your life</h1><h2 id="">Happy, Smart, and Useful by Derek Sivers.</h2><p id="">”There are three things to consider when making life-size decisions:</p><p id="">• What makes you happy</p><p id="">• What’s smart — meaning long-term good for you</p><p id="">• What’s useful to others”</p><p id=""><strong id="">Happy, Smart, and Useful | Derek Sivers</strong></p><p id="">sive.rs</p><h2 id="">How You Can Have A Fulfilling Career – 10 Scientific Steps by Eric Barker.</h2><p id="">”In the end, I see it like this: You’re going to spend 80,000 hours working over the course of your life.</p><p id="">Yeah. 80,000.</p><p id="">Might be nice if you enjoyed it.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">How You Can Have A Fulfilling Career - 10 Scientific Steps - Barking Up The Wrong Tree</strong></p><p id="">Everything you need to know about How You Can Have A Fulfilling Career - 10 Scientific Steps</p><p id="">bakadesuyo.com</p><p id="">Guide to Career Planning by Marc Andreesen.</p><p id="">”The first rule of career planning: Do not plan your career.</p><p id="">The world is an incredibly complex place.</p><p id="">You can’t plan your career because you have no idea what’s going to happen in the future.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">Pmarchive · Pmarca Guide to Career Planning: Introduction</strong></p><p id="">An archive of the best articles from Marc Andreessen’s now defunct blog</p><p id="">fictivekin.github.io</p><h2 id="">How to Pick a Career (That Actually Fits You) by Tim Urban</h2><p id="">”If a career is like connecting the dots, we should probably rank “getting wise about dot-jumping” pretty high on our to-do list.</p><p id="">The best place to start is by looking at your own past.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">How to Pick a Career (That Actually Fits You) — Wait But Why</strong></p><p id="">Our career path is how we spend our time, how we support our lifestyles, how we make our impact, and even sometimes how we define our identity. Let’s make sure we’re on the righ...</p><p id="">waitbutwhy.com</p><h2 id="">Career Decisions by Elad Gil.</h2><p id="">”Factors to overweight:</p><p id="">1. Network.</p><p id="">2. Market &amp; Growth Rate.</p><p id="">3. Optionality.</p><p id="">4. Brand.</p><p id="">Factors that don't matter as much as you think:</p><p id="">1. Role.</p><p id="">2. Compensation.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">Career Decisions</strong></p><p id="">Whenever you make a decision on what step to take next in your career[1], I think it is worth considering the following factors. &nbsp;Depending...</p><p id="">blog.eladgil.com</p><h2 id="">Figuring out what to do with your life by Julian Shapiro.</h2><p id="">”Write down the values you passionately care about.</p><p id="">Order those values from most to least important.</p><p id="">Place a checkmark next to the value that it has a high likelihood of fulfilling.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">How to figure out what to do with your life</strong></p><p id="">How to decide which business and creative projects you should work on. Make life decisions using a mental model instead of instincts and momentum.</p><p id="">www.julian.com</p><h2 id="">Don't Follow Your Passion by Ben Horowitz</h2><p id="">"Ever watched American Idol? Just because you love singing doesn't mean you should be a singer.”</p><p id="">"Find that thing you're great at. Put that into the world. Contribute to others. Help the world be better.”</p><figure class="w-richtext-figure-type-video w-richtext-align-center" style="padding-bottom:33.75%" data-rt-type="video" data-rt-align="center" data-rt-max-width="" data-rt-max-height="33.75%" data-rt-dimensions="0:0" data-page-url=""><div><iframe allowfullscreen="" frameborder="0" src="https://youtube.com/embed/uaSqh4DiQSw"></iframe></div></figure><h2 id="">Advice for ambitious 19-year-olds by Sam Altman.</h2><p id="">”No matter what you choose, build stuff and be around smart people.</p><p id="">The best people always seem to be building stuff and hanging around smart people."</p><p id=""><strong id="">Advice for ambitious 19 year olds</strong></p><p id="">“I’m an ambitious 19 year old, what should I do?” &nbsp;I get asked this question fairly often, and I now have a lot of data on what works, so I thought I’d share my response....</p><p id="">blog.samaltman.com</p><h2 id="">How to Do What You Love by Paul Graham.</h2><p id="">”What you should not do, I think, is worry about the opinion of anyone beyond your friends.</p><p id="">You shouldn't worry about prestige.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">How to Do What You Love</strong></p><p id="">paulgraham.com</p><h2 id="">How to find and do work you love by Scott Dinsmore.</h2><p id="">"If you don't know what you're looking for you're never going to find it.</p><p id="">The fastest way to do things you don't think can be done is to surround yourself with passionate people.”</p><figure class="w-richtext-figure-type-video w-richtext-align-center" style="padding-bottom:33.75%" data-rt-type="video" data-rt-align="center" data-rt-max-width="" data-rt-max-height="33.75%" data-rt-dimensions="0:0" data-page-url=""><div><iframe allowfullscreen="" frameborder="0" src="https://youtube.com/embed/jpe-LKn-4gM"></iframe></div></figure><h2 id="">How to Get Rich by Naval Ravikant</h2><p id="">”The more authentic you are to who you are, the less competition you’re gonna have.</p><p id="">So, you can escape competition through authenticity when you realize that no one can compete with you on being you.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">How to Get Rich</strong></p><p id="">A collection of all my interviews about my ‘How to Get Rich’ tweetstorm. &nbsp;Seek Wealth, Not Money or Status Wealth is assets that earn while you sleep You probably know...</p><p id="">nav.al</p><h2 id="">2013 MIT Commencement by Drew Houston.</h2><p id="">“Instead of trying to make your life perfect, give yourself the freedom to make it an adventure, and go ever upward.”</p><figure class="w-richtext-figure-type-video w-richtext-align-center" style="padding-bottom:33.75%" data-rt-type="video" data-rt-align="center" data-rt-max-width="" data-rt-max-height="33.75%" data-rt-dimensions="0:0" data-page-url=""><div><iframe allowfullscreen="" frameborder="0" src="https://youtube.com/embed/dHVD-ZH6DGY"></iframe></div></figure><h2 id="">2005 Stanford Commencement Address by Steve Jobs.</h2><p id="">"Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life”</p><figure class="w-richtext-figure-type-video w-richtext-align-center" style="padding-bottom:33.75%" data-rt-type="video" data-rt-align="center" data-rt-max-width="" data-rt-max-height="33.75%" data-rt-dimensions="0:0" data-page-url=""><div><iframe allowfullscreen="" frameborder="0" src="https://youtube.com/embed/UF8uR6Z6KLc"></iframe></div></figure><h2 id="">What Should You Do with Your Life? Directions and Advice by Alexey Guzey.</h2><p id="">”I ask a lot of people about their life plans.</p><p id="">At least half of them tell me that they have no idea where to move.</p><p id="">Therefore, I wrote this post.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">What Should You Do with Your Life? Directions and Advice - Alexey Guzey</strong></p><p id="">I ask a lot of people about their life plans. At least half of them tell me that they have no idea where to move and are just coasting along, not sure what to do next. Therefore...</p><p id="">guzey.com</p><h2 id="">Don't End The Week With Nothing by Patrick McKenzie.</h2><p id="">”Prefer Working On Things You Can Show.</p><p id="">Prefer To Work Where People Can See You.</p><p id="">Prefer To Work On Things You Can Keep."</p><p id=""><strong id="">Don't End The Week With Nothing</strong></p><p id="">A bit of inspiration (and some hopefully actionable advice) for folks who are still working at day jobs.</p><p id="">training.kalzumeus.com</p><h2 id="">Dive in by Nate Soares.</h2><p id="">”The way you end up doing good in the world has very little to do with how good your initial plan was.</p><p id="">Most of your outcome will depend on luck, timing, and your ability to actually get out of your own way and start.”</p><p id=""><strong id="">Dive in</strong></p><p id="">I often bump into people who want to do something big, interesting, or important, but who utterly lack the ability to commit themselves to a particular action (often because the...</p><p id="">mindingourway.com</p><h2 id="">That's it, I hope you enjoyed reading :)</h2><p>‍</p>